---
layout: post
title: RGB Loop!
subtitle: Creating a program to print colors every 10th time
tags: [coding, nested-if, while-loops]
author: Melissa Mendino Solano
---

For this assignment, we had to write a program that would print out a color every 10th time through a loop. The colors printed had to be printed 3 times, then move on to the next color to be printed 3 times.
The colors were red, green, and blue - thus the output for 70 loops would be: RED, RED, RED, GREEN, GREEN, GREEN, BLUE.

This assignment was very difficult for me to understand how to approach and work through.
Because we had just learned while loops, I began by creating a while loop to print "RED" every 10th time by using an integer variable named runTimes. My code for that worked, but then I had to figure out how to make it change colors.

I created another integer variable, color, to help figure out when each color should print. I ended up using a nested if statement with color conditionals tied to the number times it has gone through the loop. After this, I couldn't figure out what was wrong with my numbers, it would print RED at the first time through the loop and skip a RED or use GREEN. I checked the integar variables for each time a color was printed, but the color values made no sense to me. I created a currentTime integer variable to tell me how many times through the loop the code had run, and this helped me figure out what to change to ensure the program would work.

For a runTimes of 150, here is the output:


Here is the output with my checks of currentTime and runTimes for runTimes of 150:


For a runTimes of 77, here is the output:


runTimes of 77 with checks \(currentTime, runTimes)\:


##### A tip for this project is to utilize checks within the code more often!!!
I didn't utilize checks for my outputs in the beginning of working through the project, and in turn, I was only guessing at where the issue was. I thought that the issue was specifically at 120 runTimes, and continued to try to figure out why it was happening there.
I ended up changing a lot of conditions that weren't the issue until I thought to utilize a check for what number loop we were on.
I did this by printing out the value of runTimes when the color RED was printed and found out that the issue was actually at 100 instead of 120.
